docs/user/spaces/why-spaces.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: why-spaces
title: Why Spaces?
---

# Why You Should Use Spaces – and How They Differ from Classic Sharing

## The Problem with Classic Sharing

Let’s take a simple example:

- **Alan** creates a folder called **"Project"** and shares it with several Persons
  <img src={require("./img/why-spaces/spaghetti.png").default} alt="Member menu" width="500"/>
- Later, Alan leaves the organization
- As Alan's account is deleted, some shared folder disappears
- **User loses access** to some folders and their content

<img src={require("./img/why-spaces/alan-left.png").default} alt="Member menu" width="500"/>

This scenario highlights several risks:

- ❌ **Potential data loss** when the original owner leaves
- ❌ **Project data counts toward personal quotas**, which is not ideal for teamwork
- ❌ **Administrative overhead** when ownership needs to be transferred
- ❌ **Spaghetti sharing chaos** – users get lost in their "Shared with me" or "Shared with others" sections

---

## ✅ The Benefits of Using Spaces

Spaces are designed to overcome these limitations and provide a more stable, team-friendly solution:

- 🏢 **Organization-owned**: Spaces belong to the organization, not individuals.
- 👥 **Collaborative management**: Multiple users can manage a Space together.
- 📦 **Dedicated quota**: Each Space has its own storage limit, separate from personal quotas.

<img src={require("./img/why-spaces/spaces.png").default} alt="Member menu" width="500"/>

> **Spaces make collaboration simpler, safer, and more scalable — especially in professional environments.**

Commit message:

style guide adjustments (#385)
* fix h1 lines

* Rework wip

* format

* lint

* fix description

* Rework User Doku

* rework user part

* add headlines in overview and fontmatter in intro

* rewrite sidebar headlines

* fix with lint

* app tokens

---------

Co-authored-by: Heiko Pohl <h.pohl@opencloud.eu>
Co-authored-by: Anja Barz <a.barz@opencloud.eu>

docs/user/spaces/why-spaces.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: why-spaces
title: Why Spaces?
description: Why you should use Spaces
draft: false
---

# Why you should use Spaces – and now they differ from classic sharing

## The problem with classic sharing

### Let’s take a simple example

- **Alan** creates a folder called **"Project"** and shares it with several Persons
  <img src={require("./img/why-spaces/spaghetti.png").default} alt="Member menu" width="500"/>
- Later, Alan leaves the organization
- As Alan's account is deleted, some shared folder disappears
- **User loses access** to some folders and their content

  <img src={require("./img/why-spaces/alan-left.png").default} alt="Member menu" width="500"/>

### This scenario highlights several risks

- ❌ **Potential data loss** when the original owner leaves
- ❌ **Project data counts toward personal quotas**, which is not ideal for teamwork
- ❌ **Administrative overhead** when ownership needs to be transferred
- ❌ **Spaghetti sharing chaos** – users get lost in their "Shared with me" or "Shared with others" sections

## The Benefits of Using Spaces

### Spaces are designed to overcome these limitations and provide a more stable, team-friendly solution

- 🏢 **Organization-owned**: Spaces belong to the organization, not individuals.
- 👥 **Collaborative management**: Multiple users can manage a Space together.
- 📦 **Dedicated quota**: Each Space has its own storage limit, separate from personal quotas.

  <img src={require("./img/why-spaces/spaces.png").default} alt="Member menu" width="500"/>

:::note
Spaces make collaboration simpler, safer, and more scalable — especially in professional environments.
:::
