docs/user/desktop-client/installation.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: installation
title: Installation
---

# Installation of the OpenCloud Desktop

To install the OpenCloud Desktop, follow these simple steps:

## Download the Installation File
- Open your browser and go to [www.xxxxxx.de](https://www.xxxxxx.de).
- Choose the correct version for your operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux).
- Click **Download** to start the process.

## Start the Installation
- Once the download is complete, double-click the installation file to open it.
- The installation assistant will guide you through the process.

## Follow the Installation Steps
1. **Introduction**: Click **"Continue"** to proceed.

<!--- <img src={require("./img/installation/installation-welcome.png").default} alt="installation welcome page" width="400"/>--->

2. **Destination Select**: Choose where you want the program to be installed. Click **"Continue"**.

<!--- <img src={require("./img/installation/installation-installation-destination.png").default} alt="installation destination" width="400"/>--->

3. **Choose Installation Type**: Select the version you want to install. Click **"Install"**.

<!--- <img src={require("./img/installation/installation-installation-type.png").default} alt="installation type" width="400"/>--->

4. **Installation Progress**: Wait while the software installs.

<!--- <img src={require("./img/installation/installation-install-process.png").default} alt="installation process" width="400"/>--->

5. **Completion**: When finished, you’ll see a confirmation message. Click **"Close"**.

<!--- <img src={require("./img/installation/installation-installation-finish.png").default} alt="installation finish" width="400"/>--->

Now, the Desktop Client is successfully installed and ready to use!

Commit message:

remove pseudo download URL and add info that Desktop is not available yet

docs/user/desktop-client/installation.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: installation
title: Installation
---

# Installation of the OpenCloud Desktop

> ## NOTE: OpenCloud Desktop is not available yet. We are working on making it available in near future

To install the OpenCloud Desktop, follow these simple steps:

## Download the Installation File
- Open your browser and go to *URL comming soon*
- Choose the correct version for your operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux)
- Click **Download** to start the process

## Start the Installation
- Once the download is complete, double-click the installation file to open it
- The installation assistant will guide you through the process

## Follow the Installation Steps
1. **Introduction**: Click **"Continue"** to proceed

<!--- <img src={require("./img/installation/installation-welcome.png").default} alt="installation welcome page" width="400"/>--->

2. **Destination Select**: Choose where you want the program to be installed. Click **"Continue"**

<!--- <img src={require("./img/installation/installation-installation-destination.png").default} alt="installation destination" width="400"/>--->

3. **Choose Installation Type**: Select the version you want to install. Click **"Install"**

<!--- <img src={require("./img/installation/installation-installation-type.png").default} alt="installation type" width="400"/>--->

4. **Installation Progress**: Wait while the software installs

<!--- <img src={require("./img/installation/installation-install-process.png").default} alt="installation process" width="400"/>--->

5. **Completion**: When finished, you’ll see a confirmation message. Click **"Close"**

<!--- <img src={require("./img/installation/installation-installation-finish.png").default} alt="installation finish" width="400"/>--->

Now, the Desktop Client is successfully installed and ready to use!
