docs/user/android-app/general/set-up.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
id: set-up
title: Set up OpenCloud Android App
draft: true
---

## 🔐 Setting Up Your OpenCloud Account

After installing the app, you can now set up your OpenCloud account.

### 1. Start the Setup

- Tap on **"Start Setup"** to begin.
- If you've already set up an account and want to add another one, tap the **"+" icon** located at the bottom left corner of the screen.

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/start-setup.png").default} alt="start setup" height="400"/>
<img src={require(".././img/set-up/add-additional-account.png").default} alt="add additional account" height="400"/> -->


### 2. Enter Your Server URL

- Enter your **OpenCloud Server URL** (e.g., `https://cloud.example.com`)  
- Tap **"Proceed"** to continue.

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/enter-server-url.png").default} alt="enter server URL" height="400"/> -->

### 3. Open the Login Page

- Tap **"Open Login Page"**
- Then tap **"Continue"** to launch the login page in your browser

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/open-login-page.png").default} alt="Open Login Page" height="400"/>
<img src={require(".././img/set-up/continue-sign-in.png").default} alt="continue sign in" height="400"/> -->

### 4. Log In and Authorize Access

- Log in with your OpenCloud credentials
- Grant the app permission to access your user information and maintain continuous access

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/enter-credentials.png").default} alt="Enter Opencloud credentials" height="400"/>
<img src={require(".././img/set-up/grant-access.png").default} alt="Grant access" height="400"/> -->

### 5. Finalize Setup

- Once login is complete, your account will be added to the app
- Optionally, assign a **custom display name** to your account  
  (By default, it will appear as `USERNAME@YOUR.DOMAIN`)

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/custom-name.png").default} alt="Enter custom name" height="400"/> -->

> ✅ Your OpenCloud account is now fully set up and ready to use!

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/account-set-up.png").default} alt="Account is set up" height="400"/> -->

Commit message:

delete screenshots of android app tutorials in english

docs/user/android-app/general/set-up.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
id: set-up
title: Set up OpenCloud Android App
draft: true
---

## 🔐 Setting Up Your OpenCloud Account

After installing the app, you can now set up your OpenCloud account.

### 1. Start the Setup

- When you first start the OpenCloud Android app, you will see the following screen.

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/start-setup.png").default} alt="start setup" height="400"/>
<img src={require(".././img/set-up/add-additional-account.png").default} alt="add additional account" height="400"/> -->


### 2. Enter Your Server URL

- Enter your **OpenCloud Server URL** (e.g., `https://cloud.example.com`)  
- Tap **">"** to continue.

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/enter-server-url.png").default} alt="enter server URL" height="400"/> -->

### 3. The Login Page

- The Login Page will be opening and you musst type in your username and password.
- Then tap **"Log in"**.
- In the following screen, grant the app permission to access your user information and maintain continuous access by tapping the **"Allow"** button. 

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/open-login-page.png").default} alt="Open Login Page" height="400"/>
<img src={require(".././img/set-up/continue-sign-in.png").default} alt="continue sign in" height="400"/> -->

### 4. Pop-up window

- A Pop-up window opens and ask you for allow or don't allow the app to send you notifications
- Choose one of the options by clicking on them 

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/enter-credentials.png").default} alt="Enter Opencloud credentials" height="400"/>
<img src={require(".././img/set-up/grant-access.png").default} alt="Grant access" height="400"/> -->

### 5. Finalize Setup

- Once login is complete, your account will be added to the app

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/custom-name.png").default} alt="Enter custom name" height="400"/> -->

> ✅ Your OpenCloud account is now fully set up and ready to use!

<!-- <img src={require(".././img/set-up/account-set-up.png").default} alt="Account is set up" height="400"/> -->
