docs/admin/getting-started/requirements.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: requirements
title: Requirements
description: Runs on anything from a Raspberry Pi to a data center.
draft: false
---

| Category                | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| :---------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Server Operating System | <ul><li>Production: Linux</li><li>Testing and development: MacOS or Windows WSL</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Database                | <ul><li>None (OpenCloud stores files exclusively on the storage to minimize complexity and ensure maximum reliability)</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Storage                 | <ul><li>Local storage: Classic file storage on a local file system with POSIX compatibility (e.g., ext4, XFS, ZFS)</li><li>S3</li><li>NFS (mounted with NFS version 4.2 or later)</li><li>CephFS</li><li>GPFS</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Hardware requirements   | Minimum (Minimal bare-metal Deployment - Up to 10 Users) <ul><li>eg. Raspberry Pi 3</li><li>1 GHz (Single-core)</li><li>512 MB Ram</li><li>Storage: depends on data usage</li></ul> Medium (Deployment - Up to 1,000 Users) <ul><li>2 GHz (Dual-core)</li><li>8 GB Ram</li><li>Storage: depends on data usage</li></ul> General: <ul><li>Disk Performance (IOPS): Input/output operations per second (IOPS) should be unrestricted for maintaining optimal performance.</li><li>The server requirements vary based on load factors such as requests per second, number of client devices per user, file volume, post-processing tasks, and additional apps like Collabora. Proper sizing depends on these variables and should be adjusted accordingly.</li></ul> |

Commit message:

Revise storage requirements in requirements.md
Updated storage requirements to include details for 'posix' and 'decomposed' storage drivers, specifying filesystem compliance and additional requirements.

docs/admin/getting-started/requirements.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: requirements
title: Requirements
description: Runs on anything from a Raspberry Pi to a data center.
draft: false
---

| Category                | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| :---------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Server Operating System | <ul><li>Production: Linux</li><li>Testing and development: MacOS or Windows WSL</li></ul> |
| Database                | <ul><li>None (OpenCloud stores files exclusively on the storage to minimize complexity and ensure maximum reliability)</li></ul> |
| Storage                 | <ul><li>The `posix` and `decomposed` storage drivers require:<ul><li>a fully POSIX compliant filesystem <ul><li> local e.g. ext4, XFS, ZFS</li><li>network e.g. CephFS, GPFS, NFS v4.2 or later</li></ul></li><li>atomic read after write consistency for directory metadata (NFS mount option `noac`)</li></ul></li><li>`decomposeds3` additionally requires an S3 bucket</li><li>`posix` requires extended attributes (offloading metadata >1KB into dedicated files)</li></ul> |
| Hardware requirements   | Minimum (Minimal bare-metal Deployment - Up to 10 Users) <ul><li>eg. Raspberry Pi 3</li><li>1 GHz (Single-core)</li><li>512 MB Ram</li><li>Storage: depends on data usage</li></ul> Medium (Deployment - Up to 1,000 Users) <ul><li>2 GHz (Dual-core)</li><li>8 GB Ram</li><li>Storage: depends on data usage</li></ul> General: <ul><li>Disk Performance (IOPS): Input/output operations per second (IOPS) should be unrestricted for maintaining optimal performance.</li><li>The server requirements vary based on load factors such as requests per second, number of client devices per user, file volume, post-processing tasks, and additional apps like Collabora. Proper sizing depends on these variables and should be adjusted accordingly.</li></ul> |
