docs/user/android-app/shortcuts.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
id: shortcuts
title: Shortcut in the OpenCloud Android app
draft: true
---

# Shortcut in the OpenCloud Android app

## Here we show you how to create shortcuts in the Android app

---

### 1. Click on the "Plus symbol"

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/plus-button.png").default} alt="Plus button" width="300"/> -->
<br/>

### 2. A drop-down menue opens

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/plus-menue.png").default} alt="Plus menue" width="300"/> -->
<br/>

### 3. Select "New shortcut"

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/new-shortcut.png").default} alt="New shortcut" width="300"/> -->
<br/>

### 4. A menue opens with options for shortcuts

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/shortcut-menue.png").default} alt="Shortcut menue" width="300"/> -->
<br/>

### 5. To create a shortcut to a website, enter the address of the website under "URL"

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/url.png").default} alt="URL" width="300"/> -->
<br/>

### 6. Here you enter a name for the shortcut with which it will be displayed

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/shortcut-name.png").default} alt="Name of the shortcut" width="300"/> -->
<br/>

### 7. To create the shortcut, click on "Create"

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/create-button.png").default} alt="Create button" width="300"/> -->
<br/>

### 8. Your created shortcut is now displayed and can be used

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/created-shortcut.png").default} alt="Shortcut" width="300"/> -->
<br/>

Commit message:

style guide adjustments (#385)
* fix h1 lines

* Rework wip

* format

* lint

* fix description

* Rework User Doku

* rework user part

* add headlines in overview and fontmatter in intro

* rewrite sidebar headlines

* fix with lint

* app tokens

---------

Co-authored-by: Heiko Pohl <h.pohl@opencloud.eu>
Co-authored-by: Anja Barz <a.barz@opencloud.eu>

docs/user/android-app/shortcuts.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
id: shortcuts
title: Shortcut in the OpenCloud Android app
description: Shortcut
draft: true
---

# Shortcut in the OpenCloud Android app

Here we show you how to create shortcuts in the Android app

## 1. Plus symbol

Click on the "Plus symbol"

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/plus-button.png").default} alt="Plus button" width="300"/> -->

## 2. Drop-down menu

A drop-down menu opens

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/plus-menue.png").default} alt="Plus menue" width="300"/> -->

## 3. New shortcut

Select "New shortcut"

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/new-shortcut.png").default} alt="New shortcut" width="300"/> -->

## 4. shortcut menu

A menue opens with options for shortcuts

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/shortcut-menue.png").default} alt="Shortcut menue" width="300"/> -->

## 5. URL

To create a shortcut to a website, enter the address of the website under "URL"

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/url.png").default} alt="URL" width="300"/> -->

## 6. Shortcut name

Here you enter a name for the shortcut with which it will be displayed

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/shortcut-name.png").default} alt="Name of the shortcut" width="300"/> -->

## 7. Create button

To create the shortcut, click on "Create"

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/create-button.png").default} alt="Create button" width="300"/> -->

## 8. Created shortcut

Your created shortcut is now displayed and can be used

<!-- <img src={require("./img/shortcuts/created-shortcut.png").default} alt="Shortcut" width="300"/> -->
