docs/user/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import OcLogoPetrol from '/static/img/oc-logo-petrol.svg';
import OcLogoLilac from '/static/img/oc-logo-lilac.svg';

# Welcome

<OcLogoPetrol width="250" height="55" className="light-mode-image"/>
<OcLogoLilac width="250" height="55" className="dark-mode-image"/>


## Welcome to the OpenCloud knowledge base

Here you will find all the important information to successfully take the first steps in OpenCloud, to be able to solve technical problems flexibly yourself and to be able to answer frequently asked questions.
<br/><br/>


### Table of contents:

#### User Interface and Navigation:
Here you will find general information about account settings, customizations and view modes.

#### Manage Files and Folders:
Here you will find information about the management of files and folders.

#### Share Files and Folders:
Here you will find information on how to share files and folders.

#### Working in Teams with Spaces:
Here you will find information for dealing with Spaces.

#### OpenCloud Desktop:
Here you will find information on how to install and set up the desktop client.

#### Roles:
Here you will find information about the different roles that can be assigned.

#### Administration of OpenCloud:

Here you will find information on what options admins have and how you can use them.
<br/><br/>

### What is OpenCloud?

OpenCloud is the file sharing and collaboration solution of the Heinlein Group.

Through intelligent file management and a strong open source community, files become valuable resources, effectively structured and usable in the long term. With flexible data rooms and intelligent access rights, teams can access and work together on data anytime, anywhere without barriers, but with a lot of productivity.
<br/><br/>

### How can I use OpenCloud?

Instructions on how to install and set up your own OpenCloud can be found in the "Admin Documentation" under "Quick Start".

Commit message:

remove pseudo download URL and add info that Desktop is not available yet

docs/user/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import OcLogoPetrol from '/static/img/oc-logo-petrol.svg';
import OcLogoLilac from '/static/img/oc-logo-lilac.svg';

# Welcome

<OcLogoPetrol width="250" height="55" className="light-mode-image"/>
<OcLogoLilac width="250" height="55" className="dark-mode-image"/>


## Welcome to the OpenCloud knowledge base

Here you will find all the important information to successfully take the first steps in OpenCloud, to be able to solve technical problems flexibly yourself and to be able to answer frequently asked questions.
<br/><br/>


### Table of contents:

#### User Interface and Navigation:
Here you will find general information about account settings, customizations and view modes.

#### Manage Files and Folders:
Here you will find information about the management of files and folders.

#### Share Files and Folders:
Here you will find information on how to share files and folders.

#### Working in Teams with Spaces:
Here you will find information for dealing with Spaces.

#### OpenCloud Desktop:
Here you will find information on how to install and set up the desktop client.&nbsp;

**NOTE:** OpenCloud Desktop is not available yet. We are working on making it available in near future

#### Roles:
Here you will find information about the different roles that can be assigned.

#### Administration of OpenCloud:

Here you will find information on what options admins have and how you can use them.
<br/><br/>

### What is OpenCloud?

OpenCloud is the file sharing and collaboration solution of the Heinlein Group.

Through intelligent file management and a strong open source community, files become valuable resources, effectively structured and usable in the long term. With flexible data rooms and intelligent access rights, teams can access and work together on data anytime, anywhere without barriers, but with a lot of productivity.
<br/><br/>

### How can I use OpenCloud?

Instructions on how to install and set up your own OpenCloud can be found in the "Admin Documentation" under "Quick Start".
