docs/user/ios-app/files-and-folders/upload-make-available-offline.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
id: upload-make-available-offline
title: Upload - Make available offline
---

# 📤 Upload Files & Make Them Available Offline (iOS)

With the OpenCloud iOS App, you can easily upload files and make them available for offline use.

---

## 🔼 Upload Files

### 1. Open the Desired Folder

Navigate to the folder where you want to upload a file.

### 2. Tap the **“+” icon** in the top right corner

<img src={require("../img/files-and-folders/upoload-make-available-offline/upload-plus-button.png").default} alt="Plus Button" height="400"/>

### 3. Choose an Upload Option

From the menu, you can choose:

- **"Upload file"** – upload a file from your device's Files app
- **"Upload from your photo library"** – upload an existing photo or video from your media library

<img src={require("../img/files-and-folders/upoload-make-available-offline/upload-options.png").default} alt="Upload Options" height="400"/>

### 4. Confirm the Selection

Choose the file or media you want to upload. The upload will start automatically.

---

## 📥 Make Files Available Offline

You can also make files available offline so they are accessible without an internet connection.

### 1. Tap the **three dots** (⋯) next to the file

<img src={require("../img/files-and-folders/upoload-make-available-offline/three-dots.png").default} alt="Make available offline" height="400"/>

### 2. Select **“Make available offline”**

The file will be downloaded and stored locally on your device.

<img src={require("../img/files-and-folders/upoload-make-available-offline/make-available-offline.png").default} alt="Make available offline" height="400"/>

> ✅ Offline files are marked with a **cloud icon with a checkmark**.

<img src={require("../img/files-and-folders/upoload-make-available-offline/marked-offline.png").default} alt="Make available offline" height="400"/>

---

## 🔄 Remove Offline Availability

To free up space:

- Tap the three dots (⋯) again on an offline file
- Select **“Remove offline access”**

---

These features ensure you’re always prepared — even when you’re offline!

Commit message:

style guide adjustments (#385)
* fix h1 lines

* Rework wip

* format

* lint

* fix description

* Rework User Doku

* rework user part

* add headlines in overview and fontmatter in intro

* rewrite sidebar headlines

* fix with lint

* app tokens

---------

Co-authored-by: Heiko Pohl <h.pohl@opencloud.eu>
Co-authored-by: Anja Barz <a.barz@opencloud.eu>

docs/user/ios-app/files-and-folders/upload-make-available-offline.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
id: upload-make-available-offline
title: Upload - Make available offline
description: Upload files in iOS
draft: false
---

# Upload Files in iOS

With the OpenCloud iOS App, you can easily upload files and make them available for offline use.

## Upload Files

### 1. Open the Desired Folder

Navigate to the folder where you want to upload a file.

### 2. Tap the **“+” icon** in the top right corner

<img src={require("../img/files-and-folders/upoload-make-available-offline/upload-plus-button.png").default} alt="Plus Button" height="400"/>

### 3. Choose an Upload Option

From the menu, you can choose:

- **"Upload file"** – upload a file from your device's Files app
- **"Upload from your photo library"** – upload an existing photo or video from your media library

  <img src={require("../img/files-and-folders/upoload-make-available-offline/upload-options.png").default} alt="Upload Options" height="400"/>

### 4. Confirm the Selection

Choose the file or media you want to upload. The upload will start automatically.

## Make Files Available Offline

You can also make files available offline so they are accessible without an internet connection.

### 1. Tap the **three dots** (⋯) next to the file

<img src={require("../img/files-and-folders/upoload-make-available-offline/three-dots.png").default} alt="Make available offline" height="400"/>

### 2. Select **“Make available offline”**

The file will be downloaded and stored locally on your device.

<img src={require("../img/files-and-folders/upoload-make-available-offline/make-available-offline.png").default} alt="Make available offline" height="400"/>

Offline files are marked with a **cloud icon with a checkmark**.

<img src={require("../img/files-and-folders/upoload-make-available-offline/marked-offline.png").default} alt="Make available offline" height="400"/>

## Remove Offline Availability

To free up space:

- Tap the three dots (⋯) again on an offline file
- Select **“Remove offline access”**

These features ensure you’re always prepared — even when you’re offline!
