docs/user/general/account-settings.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
id: settings
title: Account Settings
description: User account settings in OpenCloud
draft: false
---

# User account settings in OpenCloud

In OpenCloud you have the option of making various settings for your user account to customize it according to your needs

## Access the settings

- Click on your avatar in the top right corner
- Select "Preferences"
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/access.png").default} alt="Access settings" width="400" style={{ display: "block", marginTop: "1rem", marginBottom: "1rem" }}/>

## Account information

In the settings you will first see your basic account information:

### Personal informations

- Profile picture
- Username / Login name
- First and last name
- E-mail address
- Personal storage space
- Group memberships
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/account-information.png").default} alt="Account Information" width="1920"/>

### Avatar

In profile picture you can change your Avatar image:

- Click on "Upload" under your Avatar icon
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/avatar-menu.png").default} alt="Avatar menu" width="400" style={{ display: "block", marginTop: "1rem", marginBottom: "1rem" }}/>
- Choose your Avatar image and click on "Upload"
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/avatar-upload.png").default} alt="Avatar upload" width="500"/>
- now it opens a window you can anjusted your image and then click on the "Set" button
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/avatar-settings.png").default} alt="Avatar settings" width="400" style={{ display: "block", marginTop: "1rem", marginBottom: "1rem" }}/>
- after this your Avatar will be set up to your account
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/visible-avatar.png").default} alt="Visible Avatar" width="1920"/>

## Preferences

Depending on the basic configuration, you can change the following options:

- Language:  
  Select the desired language for your user interface.
- Password:  
  Change your password for access to your user account.
- Theme:  
  Customize the Theme of the user interface according to your preferences.
- Email notifications:  
  Determine which email notifications you would like to receive from OpenCloud.
- View options:  
  Set the WebDAV settings to allow external access to files and folders.
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/preferences.png").default} alt="Preferences" width="1920"/>

## Extensions

Under Extensions you can configure installed extensions, such as the Progressbar, if available.
<img src={require("./img/account-settings/extensions.png").default} alt="Extensions" width="1920"/>

## GDPR

Under GDPR you can request a data export of your personal data if you wish.
<img src={require("./img/account-settings/gdpr.png").default} alt="GDPR" width="1920"/>

## App Tokens

App Tokens allow you to connect external apps and services (such as WebDAV clients) securely without using your main password.

<img src={require("./img/account-settings/app-tokens.png").default} alt="App Tokens" width="1920"/>

Commit message:

add calendar part in account settings

docs/user/general/account-settings.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
id: settings
title: Account Settings
description: User account settings in OpenCloud
draft: false
---

# User account settings in OpenCloud

In OpenCloud you have the option of making various settings for your user account to customize it according to your needs

## Access the settings

- Click on your avatar in the top right corner
- Select "Preferences"
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/access.png").default} alt="Access settings" width="400" style={{ display: "block", marginTop: "1rem", marginBottom: "1rem" }}/>

## Account information

In the settings you will first see your basic account information:

### Personal informations

- Profile picture
- Username / Login name
- First and last name
- E-mail address
- Personal storage space
- Group memberships
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/account-information.png").default} alt="Account Information" width="1920"/>

### Avatar

In profile picture you can change your Avatar image:

- Click on "Upload" under your Avatar icon
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/avatar-menu.png").default} alt="Avatar menu" width="400" style={{ display: "block", marginTop: "1rem", marginBottom: "1rem" }}/>
- Choose your Avatar image and click on "Upload"
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/avatar-upload.png").default} alt="Avatar upload" width="500"/>
- now it opens a window you can anjusted your image and then click on the "Set" button
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/avatar-settings.png").default} alt="Avatar settings" width="400" style={{ display: "block", marginTop: "1rem", marginBottom: "1rem" }}/>
- after this your Avatar will be set up to your account
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/visible-avatar.png").default} alt="Visible Avatar" width="1920"/>

## Preferences

Depending on the basic configuration, you can change the following options:

- Language:  
  Select the desired language for your user interface.
- Password:  
  Change your password for access to your user account.
- Theme:  
  Customize the Theme of the user interface according to your preferences.
- Email notifications:  
  Determine which email notifications you would like to receive from OpenCloud.
- View options:  
  Set the WebDAV settings to allow external access to files and folders.
  <img src={require("./img/account-settings/preferences.png").default} alt="Preferences" width="1920"/>

## Extensions

Under Extensions you can configure installed extensions, such as the Progressbar, if available.
<img src={require("./img/account-settings/extensions.png").default} alt="Extensions" width="1920"/>

## Calendar

Under Calendar you can access your personal calendar for integration with third-party apps like Thunderbird, Apple Calendar, and others.

TODO Screenshot

## GDPR

Under GDPR you can request a data export of your personal data if you wish.
<img src={require("./img/account-settings/gdpr.png").default} alt="GDPR" width="1920"/>

## App Tokens

App Tokens allow you to connect external apps and services (such as WebDAV clients) securely without using your main password.

<img src={require("./img/account-settings/app-tokens.png").default} alt="App Tokens" width="1920"/>
