docs/user/general/file-list-adjustments.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
id: customization_file_list
title: Customization of the file list
---

# Files-List customizations in OpenCloud

## Clicking on the settings icon on the right side of the user interface takes you to the options for customizing the view. Here you can customize the display

---

### Available options

- **Display hidden files**
  - Activate or deactivate the display of hidden files.
  - Hidden files are often system or configuration files.

- **Display file extensions**
  - Specify whether the file extensions (e.g. `.docx`, `.jpg`) should be displayed after the file names. This makes it easier to identify file types.

- **Files per page**
  - Specify how many files should be displayed per page in a folder.
  - Useful for navigating in folders with many files.

- **Tile size**
  - Customize the size of the icons and buttons:
  - **Small tiles** for a more compact view.
  - **Large tiles** for a clearer view.

<img src={require("./img/files-list-adjustment/settings-icon.png").default} alt="Settings icon" width="400"/>

---

**The settings made are applied immediately and offer a personalized user experience.**

Commit message:

style guide adjustments (#385)
* fix h1 lines

* Rework wip

* format

* lint

* fix description

* Rework User Doku

* rework user part

* add headlines in overview and fontmatter in intro

* rewrite sidebar headlines

* fix with lint

* app tokens

---------

Co-authored-by: Heiko Pohl <h.pohl@opencloud.eu>
Co-authored-by: Anja Barz <a.barz@opencloud.eu>

docs/user/general/file-list-adjustments.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
id: customization_file_list
title: Customization of the file list
description: Files-List customizations in OpenCloud
draft: false
---

# Files-List customizations in OpenCloud

Clicking on the settings icon on the right side of the user interface takes you to the options for customizing the view. Here you can customize the display

## Available options

- **Display hidden files**
  - Activate or deactivate the display of hidden files.
  - Hidden files are often system or configuration files.

- **Display file extensions**
  - Specify whether the file extensions (e.g. `.docx`, `.jpg`) should be displayed after the file names. This makes it easier to identify file types.

- **Files per page**
  - Specify how many files should be displayed per page in a folder.
  - Useful for navigating in folders with many files.

- **Tile size**
  - Customize the size of the icons and buttons:
  - **Small tiles** for a more compact view.
  - **Large tiles** for a clearer view.

  <img src={require("./img/files-list-adjustment/settings-icon.png").default} alt="Settings icon" width="400"/>

The settings made are applied immediately and offer a personalized user experience.
