docs/user/general/view-modes.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
id: view-modes
title: View modes
---

# Change file list views in OpenCloud

## In OpenCloud you can choose between different **view modes** for your files and folders to customize the display according to your preferences

---

### Available view modes

#### **Default table view**

→ The classic **List view**, in which all files and folders are displayed in a detailed table.
<img src={require("./img/view-modes/default.png").default} alt="Default" width="1920"/>

#### **Condensed table view**

→ A more compact version of the **table view**, in which the data is summarized more closely to save space.
<img src={require("./img/view-modes/condensed.png").default} alt="Condensed" width="1920"/>

#### **Tiles view**

→ A view in which files and folders are displayed as **tiles**. Ideal for **visual representations** and if you want to access **icons** quickly.
<img src={require("./img/view-modes/tiles.png").default} alt="Tiles" width="1920"/>

---

With these options, you can **flexibly customize** your **Fileslist view** to choose the best display for you!

Commit message:

style guide adjustments (#385)
* fix h1 lines

* Rework wip

* format

* lint

* fix description

* Rework User Doku

* rework user part

* add headlines in overview and fontmatter in intro

* rewrite sidebar headlines

* fix with lint

* app tokens

---------

Co-authored-by: Heiko Pohl <h.pohl@opencloud.eu>
Co-authored-by: Anja Barz <a.barz@opencloud.eu>

docs/user/general/view-modes.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
id: view-modes
title: View modes
description: Change file list views in OpenCloud
draft: false
---

# Change file list views in OpenCloud

In OpenCloud you can choose between different **view modes** for your files and folders to customize the display according to your preferences

## Available view modes

### **Default table view**

The classic **List view**, in which all files and folders are displayed in a detailed table.
<img src={require("./img/view-modes/default.png").default} alt="Default" width="1920"/>

### **Condensed table view**

A more compact version of the **table view**, in which the data is summarized more closely to save space.
<img src={require("./img/view-modes/condensed.png").default} alt="Condensed" width="1920"/>

### **Tiles view**

A view in which files and folders are displayed as **tiles**. Ideal for **visual representations** and if you want to access **icons** quickly.
<img src={require("./img/view-modes/tiles.png").default} alt="Tiles" width="1920"/>

With these options, you can **flexibly customize** your **Fileslist view** to choose the best display for you!
