docs/admin/configuration/storage/decomposeds3.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
id: storage-decomposeds3
title: 'Decomposeds3'
description: Decomposeds3 Storage Driver
draft: false
---

# Decomposeds3 Storage Driver

Decomposeds3 is a storage driver for OpenCloud that uses MinIO, an S3-compatible object storage, for handling file storage efficiently. This setup leverages S3’s scalability while integrating seamlessly with OpenCloud.

## Prerequisites

- Linux, Mac or Windows Subsystem for Linux [(WSL)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

## Download

Download the `opencloud_full` folder (this folder contains a multi-file Docker Compose configuration):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud.git
```

## Start

Navigate to the Docker Compose configuration folder:

```bash
cd opencloud/deployments/examples/opencloud_full
```

Enable `decomposeds3.yml` and `minio.yml` in the `.env` file:

```bash
nano opencloud/deployments/examples/opencloud_full/.env
```

Find all required environment variables `env` here: [decomposeds3-envs](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud/blob/main/services/storage-users/pkg/config/config.go#L143-L176)

Start the deployment with Docker Compose:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

This starts all necessary containers in the background.

## Add local domains to /etc/hosts

Edit the /etc/hosts file and add the following entries for local access:

```bash
127.0.0.1       cloud.opencloud.test
127.0.0.1       minio.opencloud.test
```

## Login

Login with your browser:

- [https://cloud.opencloud.test](https://cloud.opencloud.test)
- user: admin
- password: admin

Congratulations! You’ve successfully set up and launched OpenCloud! Happy hacking!🚀

<img src={require("./../img/login-page.png").default} alt="Admin general" width="1920"/>

<img src={require("./../img/decomposeds3-with-minio.png").default} alt="Admin general" width="1920"/>

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues or errors, try finding a solution here:

- [Common Issues & Help](../../resources/common-issues.md)

Commit message:

rework decomposeds3 (#412)
* rework decomposed s3

* rework wording decomposed s3 doku

* remove prerequisites and default login

---------

Co-authored-by: Anja Barz <a.barz@opencloud.eu>

docs/admin/configuration/storage/decomposeds3.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
id: storage-decomposeds3
title: 'Decomposeds3'
description: Decomposeds3 Storage Driver
draft: false
---

# Decomposeds3 Storage Driver

Decomposeds3 is a storage driver for OpenCloud that uses MinIO — an S3-compatible object storage — to store files efficiently. This setup combines the scalability of S3 with seamless integration into OpenCloud.

## Setup

Navigate to the folder containing the Docker Compose configuration:

```bash
cd opencloud-compose
```

Open the `.env` file and enable the required configuration files:

```bash
nano .env
```

Uncomment the following line to enable MinIO in the S3 Storage configuration block:

```env
#DECOMPOSEDS3_MINIO=:minio.yml
```

Add `storage/decomposeds3.yml` to the `COMPOSE_FILE` variable
or include it directly in the startup command:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f storage/decomposeds3.yml up
```

Start all containers in the background:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

## Add Local Domains to /etc/hosts

To enable local access, add the following lines to your `/etc/hosts` file:

```bash
127.0.0.1       cloud.opencloud.test
127.0.0.1       minio.opencloud.test
```

## Login

Open your browser and visit:

- [https://cloud.opencloud.test](https://cloud.opencloud.test)

After logging in, you should see the OpenCloud interface:

<img src={require("./../img/login-page.png").default} alt="Login Page" width="1920"/>

<img src={require("./../img/decomposeds3-with-minio.png").default} alt="OpenCloud with decomposeds3 and MinIO" width="1920"/>

## Troubleshooting

If you run into any issues or errors, check the following resource:

- [Common Issues & Help](../../resources/common-issues.md)
