docs/user/ios-app/shares/invite.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: invite
title: Invite to share
---

# Share files and folders with people and groups via invitation

## Here we explain how to share files and folders via invitation with other people and groups within your OpenCloud in the OpenCloud iOS app

---

### 1. Click the "three-dot menue" next to the file or folder

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/three-dot-menue.png").default} alt="Three-dot menue" height="400"/>
<br/>

### 2. Now select the menue item "Share"

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/sharing-button.png").default} alt="Teilen" height="400"/>
<br/>

### 3. In the following selection, click on "Share with"

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/invite-option.png").default} alt="Teilen mit" height="400"/>
<br/>

### 4. The Share menue opens, where you can use the search bar to search for people or groups you want to invite

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/invite-menue.png").default} alt="Share with menue" height="400"/>
<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/searchbar.png").default} alt="Search bar" height="400"/>
<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/choose-invites.png").default} alt="Selection of people and/or groups" height="400"/>
<br/>

### 5. Here you can select which permissions people and groups should have:<br/>

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/permissions.png").default} alt="permissions" height="400"/>

    - Can View:<br/>
    People can only view and download content, but not edit, create, or upload it.
    - Can Edit:<br/>
    People can view, download, upload, edit, and create files.
    - Custom:<br/>
    Permissions can be individually selected here.

<br/>

### 6. To create the link you must click on "Invite"

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/invite-button.png").default} alt="invite" height="400"/>
<br/>

### 7. Once the invitation is created, you will see it in the file or folder overview

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/shared-with.png").default} alt="shared with" height="400"/>

Commit message:

style guide adjustments (#385)
* fix h1 lines

* Rework wip

* format

* lint

* fix description

* Rework User Doku

* rework user part

* add headlines in overview and fontmatter in intro

* rewrite sidebar headlines

* fix with lint

* app tokens

---------

Co-authored-by: Heiko Pohl <h.pohl@opencloud.eu>
Co-authored-by: Anja Barz <a.barz@opencloud.eu>

docs/user/ios-app/shares/invite.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: invite
title: Invite to share
description: Invite to share
draft: false
---

# Share files and folders with people and groups via invitation

Here we explain how to share files and folders via invitation with other people and groups within your OpenCloud in the OpenCloud iOS app

## Three-dot-menu

Click the "three-dot menu" next to the file or folder

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/three-dot-menue.png").default} alt="Three-dot menue" height="400"/>

## Share

Now select the menu item "Share"

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/sharing-button.png").default} alt="Teilen" height="400"/>

## Share with

In the following selection, click on "Share with"

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/invite-option.png").default} alt="Teilen mit" height="400"/>

## Share menu

The Share menu opens, where you can use the search bar to search for people or groups you want to invite

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/invite-menue.png").default} alt="Share with menue" height="400"/>
<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/searchbar.png").default} alt="Search bar" height="400"/>
<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/choose-invites.png").default} alt="Selection of people and/or groups" height="400"/>

## Permissions

Here you can select which permissions people and groups should have:

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/permissions.png").default} alt="permissions" height="400"/>

- Can View:  
  People can only view and download content, but not edit, create, or upload it.
- Can Edit:  
  People can view, download, upload, edit, and create files.
- Custom:  
  Permissions can be individually selected here.

## Invite

To create the link you must click on "Invite"

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/invite-button.png").default} alt="Invite" height="400"/>

## Created

Once the invitation is created, you will see it in the file or folder overview

<img src={require("../img/shares/invite/shared-with.png").default} alt="Shared with" height="400"/>
