docs/user/roles/space-roles.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
id: space-roles
title: Space roles in OpenCloud
---

### Space Roles in OpenCloud

| Role       | view | download | upload | edit | add | delete | manage members | disable / enable Space | edit quota | delete Space |
| :--------- | :--: | :------: | :----: | :--: | :-: | :----: | :------------: | :--------------------: | :--------: | :----------: |
| can view   |  x   |    x     |   -    |  -   |  -  |   -    |       -        |           -            |     -      |      -       |
| can edit   |  x   |    x     |   x    |  x   |  x  |   x    |       -        |           -            |     -      |      -       |
| can manage |  x   |    x     |   x    |  x   |  x  |   x    |       x        |           x            |     x      |      x       |

In a Space, members can have different roles that give them different levels of access.

### Can View

This role allows the member to view and download files in the Space, but they cannot make any changes, upload or create new files and folders.

### Can Edit

With this role, the member can do everything a "Can View" member can do, plus:

- Upload files to the Space
- Create new files and folders
- Delete files and folders, including their history
- Restore deleted files

### Can Manage

This role gives the member all the abilities of "Can Edit," plus:

- Add or remove members from the Space
- Change the roles of other members in the Space
- Enable and disable the Space
- Edit the quota of the Space
- Delete the Space

**Each role determines what a member can do within the Space!**

Commit message:

style guide adjustments (#385)
* fix h1 lines

* Rework wip

* format

* lint

* fix description

* Rework User Doku

* rework user part

* add headlines in overview and fontmatter in intro

* rewrite sidebar headlines

* fix with lint

* app tokens

---------

Co-authored-by: Heiko Pohl <h.pohl@opencloud.eu>
Co-authored-by: Anja Barz <a.barz@opencloud.eu>

docs/user/roles/space-roles.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
id: space-roles
title: Space roles in OpenCloud
description: Space roles in OpenCloud
draft: false
---

# Space Roles in OpenCloud

| Role       | view | download | upload | edit | add | delete | manage members | disable / enable Space | edit quota | delete Space |
| :--------- | :--: | :------: | :----: | :--: | :-: | :----: | :------------: | :--------------------: | :--------: | :----------: |
| can view   |  x   |    x     |   -    |  -   |  -  |   -    |       -        |           -            |     -      |      -       |
| can edit   |  x   |    x     |   x    |  x   |  x  |   x    |       -        |           -            |     -      |      -       |
| can manage |  x   |    x     |   x    |  x   |  x  |   x    |       x        |           x            |     x      |      x       |

## Share Roles and Permissions

In a Space, members can have different roles that give them different levels of access.

### Can View

This role allows the member to view and download files in the Space, but they cannot make any changes, upload or create new files and folders.

### Can Edit

With this role, the member can do everything a "Can View" member can do, plus:

- Upload files to the Space
- Create new files and folders
- Delete files and folders, including their history
- Restore deleted files

### Can Manage

This role gives the member all the abilities of "Can Edit," plus:

- Add or remove members from the Space
- Change the roles of other members in the Space
- Enable and disable the Space
- Edit the quota of the Space
- Delete the Space

Each role determines what a member can do within the Space!
