docs/user/ios-app/general/settings.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
id: settings
title: Settings
---

# Settings

## In the iOS app settings changes can be made, such as

    - User interface
    - Data usage
    - Advanced settings
    - Media files
    and more

---

<img src={require(".././img/settings/settings.png").default} alt="Settings" width="1920"/>

### Userinterface

#### 1. Theme

Here you can choose whether you want to run the app in "light mode" or "dark mode".

#### 2. Search settings

Here you can specify where the search function should operate:

- Folder
- Tree
- Space
- Account
- Server

#### 3. Logging

Here you can activate and deactivate the logging function and specify the storage location of the log file.

### Data Usage

#### 4. Cellular data usage

Here you can set whether the app can be used with cellular data or not.

#### 5. Delete unused local copies

Here you can specify when unused local copies should be deleted.

### Advanced Settings

#### 6. Show hidden files and folders

Here you can enable or disable the display of hidden files and folders.

#### 7. Show folders on top

Here you can set whether the folders should be displayed before the files in the list view.

#### 8. Disable gestures

Here you can disable gesture control to prevent multiple selection and dragging of files and folders.

#### 9. Enable diagnostics

Here you can select whether the app is allowed to run diagnostics in the background.

### Media Files

#### 10. Download instead of streaming

Here you can set whether a file should be downloaded directly or streamed.

#### 11. Media Upload

Here you can set whether certain files should be converted when uploading, such as HEIC to JPEG.

### More

#### 12. Help & contact

Here you will find links to our documentation page and help links.

#### 13. Recommend to a friend

Here you can forward a link to download the iOS app.

#### 14. Privacy Policy

A full entry on our privacy policy can be found here.

#### 15. Terms of Use

You can find a full entry on our terms of use here.

#### 16. Acknowledgements

Parts of the app may use copyrighted material, which is acknowledged here.

#### 17. App version

Here you can see which app version is being used.

Commit message:

style guide adjustments (#385)
* fix h1 lines

* Rework wip

* format

* lint

* fix description

* Rework User Doku

* rework user part

* add headlines in overview and fontmatter in intro

* rewrite sidebar headlines

* fix with lint

* app tokens

---------

Co-authored-by: Heiko Pohl <h.pohl@opencloud.eu>
Co-authored-by: Anja Barz <a.barz@opencloud.eu>

docs/user/ios-app/general/settings.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
id: settings
title: Settings
description: Setting in OpenCloud iOS app
draft: false
---

# Settings

In the iOS app settings changes can be made, such as

    - User interface
    - Data usage
    - Advanced settings
    - Media files
    and more

<img src={require(".././img/settings/settings.png").default} alt="Settings" width="1920"/>

## Userinterface

### 1. Theme

Here you can choose whether you want to run the app in "light mode" or "dark mode".

### 2. Search settings

Here you can specify where the search function should operate:

- Folder
- Tree
- Space
- Account
- Server

### 3. Logging

Here you can activate and deactivate the logging function and specify the storage location of the log file.

## Data Usage

### 4. Cellular data usage

Here you can set whether the app can be used with cellular data or not.

### 5. Delete unused local copies

Here you can specify when unused local copies should be deleted.

## Advanced Settings

### 6. Show hidden files and folders

Here you can enable or disable the display of hidden files and folders.

### 7. Show folders on top

Here you can set whether the folders should be displayed before the files in the list view.

### 8. Disable gestures

Here you can disable gesture control to prevent multiple selection and dragging of files and folders.

### 9. Enable diagnostics

Here you can select whether the app is allowed to run diagnostics in the background.

## Media Files

### 10. Download instead of streaming

Here you can set whether a file should be downloaded directly or streamed.

### 11. Media Upload

Here you can set whether certain files should be converted when uploading, such as HEIC to JPEG.

## More

### 12. Help & contact

Here you will find links to our documentation page and help links.

### 13. Recommend to a friend

Here you can forward a link to download the iOS app.

### 14. Privacy Policy

A full entry on our privacy policy can be found here.

### 15. Terms of Use

You can find a full entry on our terms of use here.

### 16. Acknowledgements

Parts of the app may use copyrighted material, which is acknowledged here.

### 17. App version

Here you can see which app version is being used.
