docs/admin/20-getting-started/40-bare-metal.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
id: bare-metal
title: Bare-Metal
description: "Manual, minimalist setup with essential features."
---

## User Guide for Installing OpenCloud
Follow the steps below to install and configure OpenCloud on your system.<br/>
This example is on Linux Ubuntu 24.04 distribution!

:::note

OpenCloud can run as a single binary. However, integrating additional services like Collabora, Apache Tika for search, or antivirus is not documented. This deployment is recommended only for experienced users who require minimal file management features. Support is available exclusively from the community.

:::

---

### 1. Install Git and clone the repository

- Open a terminal.

- Update your package list:
   ```bash
   sudo apt update && apt upgrade
   ```
   
- Install Git using the following command:
   ```bash
   sudo apt install git
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/install-git.png").default} alt="install git" width="1920"/>

- Clone the OpenCloud repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud.git
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/git-clone.png").default} alt="git clone" width="1920"/>

---

### 2. Update system and install required packages

- Install the golang package:
   ```bash
   sudo apt install golang -y
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/install-golang.png").default} alt="install golang" width="1920"/>

- Install npm (Node Package Manager):
   ```bash
   sudo apt install npm -y
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/install-npm.png").default} alt="install npm" width="1920"/>

- Install corepack globally:
   ```bash
   sudo npm install -g corepack
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/install-corepack.png").default} alt="install corepack" width="1920"/>

- Enable `pnpm` using corepack:
   ```bash
   corepack enable pnpm
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/corepack-enable.png").default} alt="corepack enable" width="1920"/>

---

### 3. Build process and OpenCloud initialization

- Navigate to the OpenCloud directory:
   ```bash
   cd opencloud
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/cd-opencloud.png").default} alt="cd opencloud" width="1920"/>
   
- Run the build generate process:
   ```bash
   make clean generate -C opencloud build
   ```

- Initialize OpenCloud with insecure configuration and set an admin password:
   ```bash
   ./bin/opencloud init --insecure true --admin-password admin
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/opencloud-init.png").default} alt="opencloud init" width="1920"/>

- Start the OpenCloud server:
   ```bash
   ./bin/opencloud server
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/opencloud-server.png").default} alt="opencloud server" width="1920"/>

---

### 4. Login

Login with your browser:
- [https://cloud.opencloud.test](https://cloud.opencloud.test)
- user: **admin**
- password: **admin**

<img src={require("./img/bare-metal/login.png").default} alt="login" width="1920"/>

--- 

### 5. Conclusion

Your OpenCloud server is now running and ready to use 🚀

---

### If you encounter any issues or errors, try finding a solution here: 
- [Common Issues & Help](./../50-resources/30-common-issues.md)

Commit message:

Insert a Disclaimer in Bare-Metal Tutorial

docs/admin/20-getting-started/40-bare-metal.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
id: bare-metal
title: Bare-Metal
description: "Manual, minimalist setup with essential features."
---

## User Guide for Installing OpenCloud
Follow the steps below to install and configure OpenCloud on your system.<br/>
This example is on Linux Ubuntu 24.04 distribution!

:::danger[Disclaimer]
   A bare-metal installation is NOT supported by us and the user must be technically skilled enough to solve any problems or difficulties independently or through community support.
:::

:::note

OpenCloud can run as a single binary. However, integrating additional services like Collabora, Apache Tika for search, or antivirus is not documented. This deployment is recommended only for experienced users who require minimal file management features. Support is available exclusively from the community.

:::

---

### 1. Install Git and clone the repository

- Open a terminal.

- Update your package list:
   ```bash
   sudo apt update && apt upgrade
   ```
   
- Install Git using the following command:
   ```bash
   sudo apt install git
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/install-git.png").default} alt="install git" width="1920"/>

- Clone the OpenCloud repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud.git
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/git-clone.png").default} alt="git clone" width="1920"/>

---

### 2. Update system and install required packages

- Install the golang package:
   ```bash
   sudo apt install golang -y
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/install-golang.png").default} alt="install golang" width="1920"/>
   **the minimum go version is 1.24**
   
- Install npm (Node Package Manager):
   ```bash
   sudo apt install npm -y
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/install-npm.png").default} alt="install npm" width="1920"/>

- Install corepack globally:
   ```bash
   sudo npm install -g corepack
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/install-corepack.png").default} alt="install corepack" width="1920"/>

- Enable `pnpm` using corepack:
   ```bash
   corepack enable pnpm
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/corepack-enable.png").default} alt="corepack enable" width="1920"/>

---

### 3. Build process and OpenCloud initialization

- Navigate to the OpenCloud directory:
   ```bash
   cd opencloud
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/cd-opencloud.png").default} alt="cd opencloud" width="1920"/>
   
- Run the build generate process:
   ```bash
   make clean generate -C opencloud build
   ```

- Initialize OpenCloud with insecure configuration and set an admin password:
   ```bash
   ./bin/opencloud init --insecure true --admin-password admin
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/opencloud-init.png").default} alt="opencloud init" width="1920"/>

- Start the OpenCloud server:
   ```bash
   ./bin/opencloud server
   ```
   <img src={require("./img/bare-metal/opencloud-server.png").default} alt="opencloud server" width="1920"/>

---

### 4. Login

Login with your browser:
- [https://cloud.opencloud.test](https://cloud.opencloud.test)
- user: **admin**
- password: **admin**

<img src={require("./img/bare-metal/login.png").default} alt="login" width="1920"/>

--- 

### 5. Conclusion

Your OpenCloud server is now running and ready to use 🚀

---

### If you encounter any issues or errors, try finding a solution here: 
- [Common Issues & Help](./../50-resources/30-common-issues.md)
