versioned_docs/version-4.0/dev/server/apis/http/graph/index.md, before:

---
title: LibreGraph
sidebar_position: 1
---

The LibreGraph API is a REST Api which is inspired by the [Microsoft Graph API](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/graph). It tries to stay compliant with the Microsoft Graph API and aims to be the Next Generation Api in OpenCloud where we want to support most of the features of the platform.
The [API specification](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/libre-graph-api) is available in the OpenApi 3 standard and there are generated client and server [SDKs](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/libre-graph-api#clients) available. You can browse the API with the [Swagger UI](https://docs.opencloud.eu/swagger/libre-graph-api/).

## Calling the LibreGraph API

```sh
{HTTP method} https://cloud.opencloud.test/graph/{version}/{resource}?{query-parameters}
```

The request component consists of:

| Component            | Description                                                             |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `{HTTP method}`      | The HTTP method which is used in the request.                           |
| `{version}`          | The version of the LibreGraph API used by the client.                   |
| `{resource}`         | The LibreGraph Resource which the client is referencing in the request. |
| `{query-parameters}` | Optional parameters for the request to customize the response.          |

### HTTP methods

| Method | Description                   |
| ------ | ----------------------------- |
| GET    | Read data from a resource.    |
| POST   | Create a new resource.        |
| PATCH  | Update an existing resource.  |
| PUT    | Replace an existing resource. |
| DELETE | Delete an existing resource.  |

The methods `GET` and `DELETE` need no request body. The methods `POST`, `PATCH` and `PUT` require a request body, normally in JSON format to provide the needed values.

### Version

OpenCloud currently provides the version `v1.0`.

### Resource

A resource could be an entity or a complex type and is usually defined by properties. Entities are always recognizable by an `Id` property. The URL contains the resource which you are interacting with e.g. `/me/drives` or `/groups/{group-id}`.

Each resource could possibly require different permissions. Usually you need permissions on a higher level for creating or updating an existing resource than for reading.

### Query parameters

Query parameters can be OData system query options, or other strings that a method accepts to customize its response.

You can use optional OData system query options to include more or fewer properties than the default response, filter the response for items that match a custom query, or provide additional parameters for a method.

For example, adding the following filter parameter restricts the drives returned to only those with the driveType property of `project`.

```shell
GET https://cloud.opencloud.test/graph/v1.0/drives?$filter=driveType eq 'project'
```

For more information about OData query options please check the [API specification](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/libre-graph-api) and the provided examples.

### Authorization

For development purposes the examples in the developer documentation use Basic Auth. It is disabled by default and should only be enabled by setting `PROXY_ENABLE_BASIC_AUTH` in [the proxy](/docs/dev/server/services/proxy/environment-variables) for development or test instances.

To authenticate with a Bearer token or OpenID Connect access token replace the `-u user:password` Basic Auth option of curl with a `-H 'Authorization: Bearer <token>'` header. A `<token>` can be obtained by copying it from a request in the browser, although it will time out within minutes. To automatically refresh the OpenID Connect access token an ssh-agent like solution like [oidc-agent](https://github.com/indigo-dc/oidc-agent) should be used. The graph endpoints that support a preconfigured token can be found in the [API specification](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/libre-graph-api)

## Resources

Commit message:

Clarify App token usage (#567)
* Update index.md

* Enhance documentation for App Token authentication

Added example for using App Token authentication with curl.

* Update index.md

* Update index.md typoz

versioned_docs/version-4.0/dev/server/apis/http/graph/index.md, after:

---
title: LibreGraph
sidebar_position: 1
---

The LibreGraph API is a REST Api which is inspired by the [Microsoft Graph API](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/graph). It tries to stay compliant with the Microsoft Graph API and aims to be the Next Generation Api in OpenCloud where we want to support most of the features of the platform.
The [API specification](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/libre-graph-api) is available in the OpenApi 3 standard and there are generated client and server [SDKs](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/libre-graph-api#clients) available. You can browse the API with the [Swagger UI](https://docs.opencloud.eu/swagger/libre-graph-api/).

## Calling the LibreGraph API

```sh
{HTTP method} https://cloud.opencloud.test/graph/{version}/{resource}?{query-parameters}
```

The request component consists of:

| Component            | Description                                                             |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `{HTTP method}`      | The HTTP method which is used in the request.                           |
| `{version}`          | The version of the LibreGraph API used by the client.                   |
| `{resource}`         | The LibreGraph Resource which the client is referencing in the request. |
| `{query-parameters}` | Optional parameters for the request to customize the response.          |

### HTTP methods

| Method | Description                   |
| ------ | ----------------------------- |
| GET    | Read data from a resource.    |
| POST   | Create a new resource.        |
| PATCH  | Update an existing resource.  |
| PUT    | Replace an existing resource. |
| DELETE | Delete an existing resource.  |

The methods `GET` and `DELETE` need no request body. The methods `POST`, `PATCH` and `PUT` require a request body, normally in JSON format to provide the needed values.

### Version

OpenCloud currently provides the version `v1.0`.

### Resource

A resource could be an entity or a complex type and is usually defined by properties. Entities are always recognizable by an `Id` property. The URL contains the resource which you are interacting with e.g. `/me/drives` or `/groups/{group-id}`.

Each resource could possibly require different permissions. Usually you need permissions on a higher level for creating or updating an existing resource than for reading.

### Query parameters

Query parameters can be OData system query options, or other strings that a method accepts to customize its response.

You can use optional OData system query options to include more or fewer properties than the default response, filter the response for items that match a custom query, or provide additional parameters for a method.

For example, adding the following filter parameter restricts the drives returned to only those with the driveType property of `project`.

```shell
GET https://cloud.opencloud.test/graph/v1.0/drives?$filter=driveType eq 'project'
```

For more information about OData query options please check the [API specification](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/libre-graph-api) and the provided examples.

### Authorization

For development purposes the examples in the developer documentation use Basic Auth. It is disabled by default and should only be enabled by setting `PROXY_ENABLE_BASIC_AUTH` in [the proxy](/docs/dev/server/services/proxy/environment-variables) for development or test instances.

To authenticate with a Bearer token or OpenID Connect access token replace the `-u user:password` Basic Auth option of curl with a `-H 'Authorization: Bearer <token>'` header. A `<token>` can be obtained by copying it from a request in the browser, although it will time out within minutes. To automatically refresh the OpenID Connect access token an ssh-agent like solution like [oidc-agent](https://github.com/indigo-dc/oidc-agent) should be used. The graph endpoints that support a preconfigured token can be found in the [API specification](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/libre-graph-api)

#### Authorization with App token

Users can create an App Token in their Open Cloud interface. This token can be used to authenticate a user using the Account Name for the username and the token as password. Here is an example using curl

```sh
curl 'https://cloud.opencloud.test/graph/v1.0/me' -H 'accept: application/json' -u 'accountname:the generated app token'

# or using the Authentification Basic Header
# Authentification: Basic BASE64(username + ':' + app token)
curl 'https://cloud.opencloud.test/graph/v1.0/me' -H 'accept: application/json' -H 'Authorization: Basic YWNjb3VudG5hbWU6dGhlIGdlbmVyYXRlZCBhcHAgdG9rZW4='
```

## Resources
