docs/admin/10-welcome/30-datasheet.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
id: datasheet
title: Datasheet
---


## Deployment Options

| Category                    | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|:----------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Types**                   | <ul><li>On-Premises</li><li>Managed Service: Available through partners</li><li>SaaS: Available through partners</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **Container (recommended)** | <ul><li>Docker Compose</li><li>Kubernetes Helm Charts (Q2 / 2025)</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| **Bare-Metal**              | <ul><li>OpenCloud can run as a single binary. However, integrating additional services like Collabora, Apache Tika for search, or antivirus is not documented. This deployment is recommended only for experienced users who require minimal file management features. Support is available exclusively from the community.</li></ul> |

## Backup

| Category            | Details                                                                                                                                          |
|:--------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Backup strategy** | <ul><li>**Snapshots:** Backups can be easily done solely through storage snapshots, eliminating the need for complex database backups.</li></ul> |


## Security

| Category                 | Details                                                                                                                                                              |
|:-------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Encryption**           | <ul><li>Transport Encryption: TLS</li><li>Server-Side Encryption: S3 SSE</li><li>E2EE Client-Side Encryption: Handled exclusively via OS-native encryption</li></ul> |
| **Access management**    | <ul><li>RBAC (Role-Based Access Control)</li><li>2FA / MFA</li><li>SSO (LDAP, SAML, OAuth)</li></ul>                                                                 |
| **Auditing & Logging**   | <ul><li>Detailed logs, audit trails, monitoring APIs</li></ul>                                                                                                       |
| **File Firewall**        | <ul><li>Prevent upload of restricted filetypes based on a allow- or denylist.</li></ul>                                                                                                |
| **Antivirus**            | <ul><li>ClamAV (default)</li><li>ICAP: Integrate 3rd party anti-virus scanner via Internet Content Adaptation Protocol (ICAP)</li></ul>                              |
| **Data Loss Prevention** | <ul><li>Collabora Secure View</li></ul>                                                                                                                              |

## Identity Management

| Category       | Details                                                                                                                                          |
|:---------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Integrated** | <ul><li>Integrated user and group management (LibreIDM) for up to 500 users. Designed for standalone or small-sized deployments that do not rely on third-party identity services, usually for friends and family.</li></ul>                                                            |
| **External**   | <ul><li>OpenID Connect (OIDC): Integration of external identity providers via Keycloak.</li><li>Integration of Azure AD, EntraID, ADFS</li></ul> |

## Compliance

| Regulation                                | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|:------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **EU-GDPR**                               | <ul><li>Compliant</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **WCAG 2.1 / BITV 2.0 Web Accessibility** | <ul><li>Compliant. To prevent accessibility regressions, we treat any accessibility violation as a bug and continuously fix these issues as part of our daily software development lifecycle.</li></ul> |

## High Availability

| Category                  | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|:--------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Redundancy & Failover** | <ul><li>Supported in clustered environments to ensure high availability and system reliability.</li><li>Automatic failover mechanisms help minimize downtime in case of hardware or software failures.</li></ul> |

## Integrations

| Category | Details |
|:---------|:--------|
| **Plugins & Extensibility** | <ul><li>Web: Extension system for adding custom functionality.</li><li>Server: Microservices architecture for modular and scalable server-side extensions</li></ul> |

## APIs

| API          | Description                                                                                                                                                       |
|:-------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **WebDAV**   | <ul><li>Standard file API for remote file management over HTTP/HTTPS.</li></ul>                                                                                   |
| **GraphAPI** | <ul><li>Microsoft Graph API for managing cloud storage and collaboration spaces.</li></ul>                                                                        |
| **gRPC**     | <ul><li>High-performance RPC framework for microservice communication.</li></ul>                                                                                  |
| **OCS**      | <ul><li>API for programmatic file/folder sharing and management.</li></ul>                                                                                        |
| **OCM**      | <ul><li>Open Cloud Mesh API for federated file and folder sharing between different file cloud platforms like Cernbox, ownCloud, Nextcloud or Seafile .</li></ul> |
| **SSE**      | <ul><li>Server-sent event stream for real-time client notifications.</li></ul>                                                                                    |
| **WOPI**     | <ul><li>Microsoft API for integrating Office apps with third-party storage, e.g., Collabora.</li></ul>                                                            |
| **KQL**     | <ul><li>Keyword Query Language (KQL) is a search language to perform advanced searches by filtering and querying structured data, metadata, and documents efficiently.</li></ul>                                                            |
| **ICAP**     | <ul><li>Network protocol for offloading content scanning (e.g., antivirus).</li></ul>                                                                             |

Commit message:

make clearer that bare metal is not officially supported
- made clearer that bare metal is not officially supported

docs/admin/10-welcome/30-datasheet.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
id: datasheet
title: Datasheet
---


## Deployment Options

| Category                    | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|:----------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Types**                   | <ul><li>On-Premises</li><li>Managed Service: Available through partners</li><li>SaaS: Available through partners</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **Container (recommended)** | <ul><li>Docker Compose</li><li>Kubernetes Helm Charts or Podman (Q2 / 2025)</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| **Bare-Metal (not officially supported)**              | <ul><li>OpenCloud can run as a single binary. However, integrating additional services like Collabora, Apache Tika for search, or antivirus is not documented. Bare-metal deployments are not officially supported by OpenCloud. They are great for quick evaluation but are undocumented and have a minimalist feature set.</li></ul> |

## Backup

| Category            | Details                                                                                                                                          |
|:--------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Backup strategy** | <ul><li>**Snapshots:** Backups can be easily done solely through storage snapshots, eliminating the need for complex database backups.</li></ul> |


## Security

| Category                 | Details                                                                                                                                                              |
|:-------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Encryption**           | <ul><li>Transport Encryption: TLS</li><li>Server-Side Encryption: S3 SSE</li><li>E2EE Client-Side Encryption: Handled exclusively via OS-native encryption</li></ul> |
| **Access management**    | <ul><li>RBAC (Role-Based Access Control)</li><li>2FA / MFA</li><li>SSO (LDAP, SAML, OAuth)</li></ul>                                                                 |
| **Auditing & Logging**   | <ul><li>Detailed logs, audit trails, monitoring APIs</li></ul>                                                                                                       |
| **File Firewall**        | <ul><li>Prevent upload of restricted filetypes based on a allow- or denylist.</li></ul>                                                                                                |
| **Antivirus**            | <ul><li>ClamAV (default)</li><li>ICAP: Integrate 3rd party anti-virus scanner via Internet Content Adaptation Protocol (ICAP)</li></ul>                              |
| **Data Loss Prevention** | <ul><li>Collabora Secure View</li></ul>                                                                                                                              |

## Identity Management

| Category       | Details                                                                                                                                          |
|:---------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Integrated** | <ul><li>Integrated user and group management (LibreIDM) for up to 500 users. Designed for standalone or small-sized deployments that do not rely on third-party identity services, usually for friends and family.</li></ul>                                                            |
| **External**   | <ul><li>OpenID Connect (OIDC): Integration of external identity providers via Keycloak.</li><li>Integration of Azure AD, EntraID, ADFS</li></ul> |

## Compliance

| Regulation                                | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|:------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **EU-GDPR**                               | <ul><li>Compliant</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **WCAG 2.1 / BITV 2.0 Web Accessibility** | <ul><li>Compliant. To prevent accessibility regressions, we treat any accessibility violation as a bug and continuously fix these issues as part of our daily software development lifecycle.</li></ul> |

## High Availability

| Category                  | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|:--------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Redundancy & Failover** | <ul><li>Supported in clustered environments to ensure high availability and system reliability.</li><li>Automatic failover mechanisms help minimize downtime in case of hardware or software failures.</li></ul> |

## Integrations

| Category | Details |
|:---------|:--------|
| **Plugins & Extensibility** | <ul><li>Web: Extension system for adding custom functionality.</li><li>Server: Microservices architecture for modular and scalable server-side extensions</li></ul> |

## APIs

| API          | Description                                                                                                                                                       |
|:-------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **WebDAV**   | <ul><li>Standard file API for remote file management over HTTP/HTTPS.</li></ul>                                                                                   |
| **GraphAPI** | <ul><li>Microsoft Graph API for managing cloud storage and collaboration spaces.</li></ul>                                                                        |
| **gRPC**     | <ul><li>High-performance RPC framework for microservice communication.</li></ul>                                                                                  |
| **OCS**      | <ul><li>API for programmatic file/folder sharing and management.</li></ul>                                                                                        |
| **OCM**      | <ul><li>Open Cloud Mesh API for federated file and folder sharing between different file cloud platforms like Cernbox, ownCloud, Nextcloud or Seafile .</li></ul> |
| **SSE**      | <ul><li>Server-sent event stream for real-time client notifications.</li></ul>                                                                                    |
| **WOPI**     | <ul><li>Microsoft API for integrating Office apps with third-party storage, e.g., Collabora.</li></ul>                                                            |
| **KQL**     | <ul><li>Keyword Query Language (KQL) is a search language to perform advanced searches by filtering and querying structured data, metadata, and documents efficiently.</li></ul>                                                            |
| **ICAP**     | <ul><li>Network protocol for offloading content scanning (e.g., antivirus).</li></ul>                                                                             |
