docs/admin/50-resources/30-common-issues.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
id: common-issues
title: Common Issues & Help
---

---

### Check whether the containers are running

```Shell
docker ps
```

<img src={require("./img/common-issues/quick-docker-running.png").default} alt="Admin general" width="1920"/>

Several containers should be listed here, e.g., for opencloud, traefik, etc.

---

### Accept Self-Signed Certificates

As the local environment is self-signed, you must accept the security risk in your browser.

For Firefox:

You need to click on **Advanced**

<img src={require("./img/common-issues/quick-advanced.png").default} alt="Admin general" width="500"/>

Confirm the risk with **Accept the risk and Continue**

<img src={require("./img/common-issues/quick-accept-security-risk.png").default} alt="Admin general" width="500"/>


---

### Docker Permission Issues

If your Docker Compose setup fails to start and the logs contain messages such as `permission denied`, it's likely due to incorrect ownership of local directories used by the containers.

**Example log output:**

```
opencloud-1 | {"level":"fatal","service":"nats","time":"2025-04-08T09:59:59Z","line":"github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud/services/nats/pkg/logging/nats.go:33","message":"Can't start JetStream: could not create storage directory - mkdir /var/lib/opencloud/nats: permission denied"}
```

This error typically occurs when the mounted directories are owned by the wrong user, such as `root`, instead of the standard Docker user (`UID 1000`).

**Incorrect directory ownership:**

```
drwxr-xr-x  3 root root 4096 Apr  8 09:59 opencloud-data
```

**Correct ownership should be:**

```
drwxr-xr-x  9 1000 1000 4096 Apr  7 07:57 opencloud-data
```

To resolve this issue, adjust the ownership of the directory using the `chown` command:

```bash
chown -R 1000:1000 opencloud-data
```

Ensure you apply this to all relevant folders that are mounted into your containers. This will grant the Docker container the necessary permissions to access and write to these directories.

Commit message:

add warning about User 1000 and full access

docs/admin/50-resources/30-common-issues.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
id: common-issues
title: Common Issues & Help
---

---

### Check whether the containers are running

```Shell
docker ps
```

<img src={require("./img/common-issues/quick-docker-running.png").default} alt="Admin general" width="1920"/>

Several containers should be listed here, e.g., for opencloud, traefik, etc.

---

### Accept Self-Signed Certificates

As the local environment is self-signed, you must accept the security risk in your browser.

For Firefox:

You need to click on **Advanced**

<img src={require("./img/common-issues/quick-advanced.png").default} alt="Admin general" width="500"/>

Confirm the risk with **Accept the risk and Continue**

<img src={require("./img/common-issues/quick-accept-security-risk.png").default} alt="Admin general" width="500"/>


---

### Docker Permission Issues

If your Docker Compose setup fails to start and the logs contain messages such as `permission denied`, it's likely due to incorrect ownership of local directories used by the containers.

**Example log output:**

```
opencloud-1 | {"level":"fatal","service":"nats","time":"2025-04-08T09:59:59Z","line":"github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud/services/nats/pkg/logging/nats.go:33","message":"Can't start JetStream: could not create storage directory - mkdir /var/lib/opencloud/nats: permission denied"}
```

This error typically occurs when the mounted directories are owned by the wrong user, such as `root`, instead of the standard Docker user (`UID 1000`).

**Incorrect directory ownership:**

```
drwxr-xr-x  3 root root 4096 Apr  8 09:59 opencloud-data
```

**Correct ownership should be:**

```
drwxr-xr-x  9 1000 1000 4096 Apr  7 07:57 opencloud-data
```

To resolve this issue, adjust the ownership of the directory using the `chown` command:

```bash
chown -R 1000:1000 opencloud-data
```

:::caution Security Warning

The user with UID 1000 on your host system will have full access to these mounted directories. This means that any local user account with this ID can read, modify, or delete OpenCloud config and data files.

This can pose a security risk in shared or multi-user environments. Make sure to implement proper user and permission management and consider isolating access to these directories.

:::

Ensure you apply this to all relevant folders that are mounted into your containers. This will grant the Docker container the necessary permissions to access and write to these directories.
