docs/admin/configuration/radicale-integration.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 12
id: radicale-integration
title: Calendar and Contacts Integration with Radicale
description: How to enable Calendar and Contacts integration via Radicale in OpenCloud.
draft: false
---

# Integration with Radicale

OpenCloud is able to act as an authenticating reverse proxy for the open-source
CalDAV and CardDAV Server [Radicale](https://radicale.org). With that, users
get a calender- and contacts server out of the box with OpenCloud that can be
used with a wide selection of desktop- and mobile clients without hassle.

The `opencloud-compose` deployment example already contains all the required pieces to
setup the integration. This guide explains the required steps to achieve that.

:::note
The calendar and contacts feature is - until further notice - intended for
non-customers, i.e. please note that it is not covered under our business
license, and we do not provide professional support for it. This means that
this feature is maintained and supported on best effort without warranty.
:::

## Setting up Calendar and Contacts Integration with Radicale

To use this feature you need at least OpenCloud Version 2.3.0. Earlier releases lack
some of the required features. This guide assumes that you already have a running
deployment based on the `opencloud-compose` deployment example.

### Configure the `.env` file to deploy Radicale

In the root directory of the `opencloud-compose` deployment example,
remove the `#` symbol from the line:

```env
#RADICALE=:radicale.yml
```

### Update the deployment

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

This will launch an additional container (called `radicale`) using the
`opencloudeu/radicale` container image and reconfigure the OpenCloud instance
to automatically forward all authenticated traffic on
`https://<your.opencloud.domain>/caldav` and
`https://<your.opencloud.admin>/carddav` to the radicale container adding
information about the authenticated users.

Radicale is configured to automatically create default calendar and address book for every authenticated user.

## Accessing the Calendar and Address Book

Users should now be able to access their address book and calendar with any
capable CalDAV/CardDAV software (OpenCloud does currently not provide any UI
to access them).

As very few clients currently support authentication via OpenID Connect you can use
the "App Token" feature in the user's settings page to generate an application specific
password that can be used for authentication in most existing CalDAV/CardDAV clients.

As OpenCloud implements support for the `.well-known/carddav` and `.well-known/caldav`
endpoint. Many clients are able to automatically discover existing calendars and
address books. So the only thing that is needed for those clients to work is
to set `https://<your.opencloud.domain>` as the target URL for calendars and
address books together with the OpenCloud username as the username and the
generated app token as the password for authentication.

Commit message:

fix: remove leftovers of the opencloud_full stack

docs/admin/configuration/radicale-integration.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 12
id: radicale-integration
title: Calendar and Contacts Integration with Radicale
description: How to enable Calendar and Contacts integration via Radicale in OpenCloud.
draft: false
---

# Integration with Radicale

OpenCloud is able to act as an authenticating reverse proxy for the open-source
CalDAV and CardDAV Server [Radicale](https://radicale.org). With that, users
get a calender- and contacts server out of the box with OpenCloud that can be
used with a wide selection of desktop- and mobile clients without hassle.

The `opencloud-compose` deployment example already contains all the required pieces to
setup the integration. This guide explains the required steps to achieve that.

:::note
The calendar and contacts feature is - until further notice - intended for
non-customers, i.e. please note that it is not covered under our business
license, and we do not provide professional support for it. This means that
this feature is maintained and supported on best effort without warranty.
:::

## Setting up Calendar and Contacts Integration with Radicale

To use this feature you need at least OpenCloud Version 2.3.0. Earlier releases lack
some of the required features. This guide assumes that you already have a running
deployment based on the `opencloud-compose` deployment example.

### Configure the `.env` file to deploy Radicale

In the root directory of the `opencloud-compose` deployment example,
add the radicale component to the `COMPOSE_FILE` variable in your `.env` file or add it directly to the startup command:

```bash
COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml:traefik/opencloud.yml:radicale/radicale.yml
```

or `docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f traefik/opencloud.yml -f radicale/radicale.yml up`

### Update the deployment

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

This will launch an additional container (called `radicale`) using the
`opencloudeu/radicale` container image and reconfigure the OpenCloud instance
to automatically forward all authenticated traffic on
`https://<your.opencloud.domain>/caldav` and
`https://<your.opencloud.admin>/carddav` to the radicale container adding
information about the authenticated users.

Radicale is configured to automatically create default calendar and address book for every authenticated user.

## Accessing the Calendar and Address Book

Users should now be able to access their address book and calendar with any
capable CalDAV/CardDAV software (OpenCloud does currently not provide any UI
to access them).

As very few clients currently support authentication via OpenID Connect you can use
the "App Token" feature in the user's settings page to generate an application specific
password that can be used for authentication in most existing CalDAV/CardDAV clients.

As OpenCloud implements support for the `.well-known/carddav` and `.well-known/caldav`
endpoint. Many clients are able to automatically discover existing calendars and
address books. So the only thing that is needed for those clients to work is
to set `https://<your.opencloud.domain>` as the target URL for calendars and
address books together with the OpenCloud username as the username and the
generated app token as the password for authentication.
